Version 1.10.0.dev0 (2023-04-04)
********************************

* Add YAML-based plugin validator - support both interface and interface.family schema.
* Add "boundaries" plugin schema
* Add "gridlines" plugin schema
* Convert old boundaries YAML to new format
* Convert old gridlines YAML to new format
* Update boundaries and gridlines schema to better handle defaults
* Add "product_templates" plugin schemas

Enhancements
============

Add a validator for YAML-based plugins.
---------------------------------------

*From issue NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#132: 2023-04-04, Add a validator for YAML plugins*

This parses the path to the schema file in order to determine the interface and
family name.

geoips/schema/<interface>.yaml for interface specific schema.
geoips/schema/<interface>/<family>.yaml for family-specific schema.

::

    created: /geoips/schema/__init__.py
    created: /geoips/schema/plugin_validator.py


Update boundaries and gridlines schema to simplify and handle default values better
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*From issue NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#144: 2023-04-05, Update boundaries and gridlines schema*
::

    modified: /geoips/interface_modules/boundaries/default.yaml
    modified: /geoips/interface_modules/gridlines/default.yaml
    modified: /geoips/schema/boundaries.yaml
    modified: /geoips/schema/gridlines.yaml

Convert all the old "Boundaries" YAML files to the new Boundaries interface json/yaml schema.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*From issue GEOIPS/geoips#117: 2023-04-02, Convert yaml files for boundaries interface*
* Details about change related to improvements or enhancements to the code
::

    created: /geoips/interface_modules/boundaries/
    created: /geoips/interface_modules/boundaries/default.yaml
    created: /geoips/interface_modules/boundaries/tc_pmw.yaml
    created: /geoips/interface_modules/boundaries/tc_visir.yaml
    created: /geoips/interface_modules/boundaries/tc_windspeed.yaml

Add a schema for validating `Boundaries` plugins.
-------------------------------------------------

*From issue NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#108: 2023-04-04, Add schema for `Boundaries` plugins.*

::

    modified: /geoips/schema/boundaries.yaml

Add schema for validating `product_templates` plugins
-----------------------------------------------------

*From issue NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#122: 2023-04-04, Add `product_templates` plugins*

product_templates plugins require family-specific schema - each family within the
interface has a unique schema for validation.

These schema are added to the "product_templates" subdirectory under geoips/schema

::

    new: geoips/schema/product_templates/alg.yaml

Add valid product_templates plugins
-----------------------------------

*From issue NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#122: 2023-04-04, Add `product_templates` plugins*

Convert all YAML files under geoips/yaml_configs/product_params to valid YAML-based
plugins.

Note the interface is "product_templates" for these plugins, and the family can vary.
The family determines the contents/layout of the "spec", and the plugin format
must conform with the schema defined in:
geoips/schema/product_templates/<family>.yaml

::

    new: geoips/interface_modules/product_templates/alg.yaml

Create yaml files for gridlines following gridlines schema
----------------------------------------------------------
*From issue NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#118: 2023-04-04, convert yaml files for gridlines interface*

::

    created: /geoips/interface_modules/gridlines/default.yaml
    created: /geoips/interface_modules/gridlines/tc_0p25degree.yaml
    created: /geoips/interface_modules/gridlines/tc_pmw.yaml
    created: /geoips/interface_modules/gridlines/tc_visir_3200km.yaml
    created: /geoips/interface_modules/gridlines/tc_visir.yaml
    created: /geoips/interface_modules/gridlines/tc_windspeed.yaml
