.. dropdown:: Distribution Statement

 | # # # This source code is subject to the license referenced at
 | # # # https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS.

Version 1.10.2 (2023-06-01)
***************************

* Bug fix: Do not use undefined variable in verify_area_def
* Bug fix: ensure trackfile_parser is passed through to all commands
* Bug fix: Update readers to support multiple files as appropriate
* Bug fix: Update readers to fail if multiple files not supported
* Bug fix: Update ATMS reader to ingest scan time data for both SDR and SDR-GEO files
* Bug fix: Update config-based procflow to support "sector_adjuster"
* Bug fix: raise PluginError when plugin_is_valid fails.
* Bug fix: Fix ATMS timestamp inaccuracies with astropy, correct flake8 formatting
* Bug fix: Use correct colormap for 37VNearest product.
* Bug fix: Allow calling tc_file_naming update_extra_field with output_dict=None
* Bug fix: Allow get_required_variables to return empty list
* Enhancement: Add diff product paths to log output on bad comparison, for reference
* Enhancement: Allow either original_source_filenames or source_file_names in readers.
* Enhancement: Add sector_adjuster_kwargs command line option.
* Testing: Add test_interfaces call to check_code.sh
* Testing: Allow calling check_code.sh with "no_flake8"
* Testing: Add support for "GEOIPS_DISABLE_SHARED_CODE_CHECKS" to check_code.sh
* Testing: Ignore flake8 E712 (== False)
* Documentation: Move expert installation to a separate page, fix bugs so it builds.
* Regression: Add pad_area_definition to allowed schema properties

*From issue GEOIPS#251: 2023-05-17, version update*

Enhancements
============

Allow either original_source_filenames or source_file_names in readers
----------------------------------------------------------------------

New standard attribute will be "source_file_names" in readers.

"Default" metadata outputs "original_source_filenames", for now so all test outputs
do not change, map both source_file_names and original_source_filenames to
original_source_filenames in default metadata.

Eventually we may change the YAML metadata output, but that will be an isolated
set of PRs with no other changes (we want NO output to change with the interface
updates).

::

  geoips/geoips_utils.py
  geoips/plugins/modules/output_formatters/metadata_default.py
  geoips/plugins/readers/scat_knmi_winds_netcdf.py

Add diff product paths to log output on bad comparison, for reference
---------------------------------------------------------------------

For easy viewing, include full paths to current output, comparison output, and
diff output in the log when there is a bad comparison

::

  geoips/compare_outputs.py

Add sector_adjuster_kwargs command line option
----------------------------------------------

Allow passing optional arguments to sector_adjusters.  ONLY updated single_source
procflow for now - will need to add support to config_based.py as well.

::

  modified: geoips/commandline/args.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py

Regression
==========

Add pad_area_definition to allowed schema properties
----------------------------------------------------

*From issue GEOIPS#283: 2023-06-26, Add pad_area_definition to schema*

::

  geoips/schema/product_defaults/specs/algorithm.yaml
  geoips/schema/product_defaults/specs/algorithm_colormapper.yaml
  geoips/schema/product_defaults/specs/algorithm_interpolator_colormapper.yaml
  geoips/schema/product_defaults/specs/interpolator.yaml
  geoips/schema/product_defaults/specs/interpolator_algorithm.yaml
  geoips/schema/product_defaults/specs/interpolator_algorithm_colormapper.yaml
  
Bug Fixes
=========

Allow calling tc_file_naming update_extra_field with output_dict=None
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously assumed output_dict was set, and attempted to pull fields from it.
Allow defaulting to no output_dict.

::

  geoips/plugins/modules/filename_formatters/utils/tc_file_naming.py

Update colormapper name for 37VNearest product
----------------------------------------------

Was incorrectly listed as cmap_37H_Physical - should be cmap_37H.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/yaml/product_defaults/pmw_37/37VNearest.yaml


Update base module interface class to raise PluginError when plugin_is_valid fails
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Was not catching errors when an invalid plugin was encountered - just logging it as
"False". Ensure error is raised for invalid plugin.

::

  geoips/interfaces/base.py

Update config-based procflow to support "sector_adjuster"
---------------------------------------------------------

Only implemented sector adjuster functionality in single_source procflow initially.
Update config_based procflow to use the new interface naming.

::

  geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py

Update ATMS reader to include scan time data for SDR-GEO files
------------------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#260: 2023-5-26, update ATMS reader*

Update ATMS HDF5 reader to always ingest scan time data arrays

::

    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/atms_hdf5.py

Update readers to support multiple files, or fail if only one file supported
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously would only run the FIRST passed datafile for these readers, without
failing.

Update to append multiple data files to the same dataset.

NOTE: scat_knmi_winds_netcdf was updated to include only the standard geoips
attributes at the top level, plus a new "source_file_attributes"
attribute that contains the FULL set of attributes from each individual data
file (same length and same order as "source_file_names" attribute).
We will eventually update ALL readers to include those new attributes.

* source_file_names (was original_source_filenames)
* source_file_attributes

::

  geoips/plugins/modules/readers/smos_winds_netcdf.py
  geoips/plugins/modules/readers/scat_knmi_winds_netcdf.py
  geoips/plugins/modules/readers/ssmis_binary.py
  geoips/plugins/modules/readers/amsub_mirs.py
  geoips/plugins/modules/readers/amsr2_netcdf.py

Update readers to fail if multiple files not supported
------------------------------------------------------

Do not yet update sfc_winds_text and saphir_hdf5 readers to support multiple
files - expliticly raise "ValueError" if a user attempts to read more than
one file until/unless we update those readers.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/saphir_hdf5.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/sfc_winds_text.py

Do not use undefined variable in verify_area_def
------------------------------------------------

Default to True return value in verify_area_def so we do not attempt to
use an un-defined variable. Also, explicitly set "True" return for
non-dynamic sectors because they do not have a sector time to check
against the data time.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py

Update TC processing to ensure trackfile_parser is used appropriately
---------------------------------------------------------------------

There was a combination of

* tc_spec_template,
* tc_metadata_generator,
* tc_spec_generator,
* trackfile_parser

being passed through to various utilities for identifying appropriate
storms and deck files.  Updated to use appropriate new terminology/functionality.

This included single_source procflow call to

* get_tc_area_defs_for_xarray in sector_utils/utils.py to
* get_all_storms_from_db in sector_utils/tc_tracks_database.py to
* trackfile_to_area_defs in sector_utils/tc_tracks.py (unchanged)

Also updated argument names in get_trackfile_area_defs (which is called
from single_source procflow for trackfile-based processing), correct
values were being passed previously, but they were named inconsistently.
(sector_spec_generator should have actually be tc_spec_template)

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
  modified: geoips/sector_utils/tc_tracks_database.py
  modified: geoips/sector_utils/utils.py

Fix ATMS timestamps
-------------------

ATMS timestamps output by reader did not match timestamps in source file name.
This was due to:

* Not accounting for leap seconds when converting epoch timestamp to datetime
* Encouraged by ATMS userguide to use astropy library to account for leap seconds in timestamp conversion

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/atms_hdf5.py
  modified: pyproject.toml

Testing Updates
===============

Add test_interfaces call to check_code.sh
-----------------------------------------

Have all required tests in check_code.sh.

::

  tests/utils/check_code.sh

Allow calling check_code.sh with "no_flake8"
--------------------------------------------

So we can at least enable partial code checks on large repositories that have
not been updated for flake8 requirements, allow calling check_code.sh with
"no_flake8"

::

  tests/utils/check_code.sh

Add support for "GEOIPS_DISABLE_SHARED_CODE_CHECKS" to check_code.sh
--------------------------------------------------------------------

If GEOIPS_DISABLE_SHARED_CODE_CHECKS is set, do not run test_interfaces (which
operates on every installed repo). Avoid rerunning if you are testing many repos.

::

  tests/utils/check_code.sh

Ignore flake8 E712 (== False)
-----------------------------

This error will cause problems when "== False" is used within np.ma.where commands.
If you attempt to switch "== False" for "is False" in np.ma.where, it will fail.
Ignore this error to avoid improper update to "is False" in np.ma.where.

::

  tests/utils/check_code.sh

Documentation Updates
=====================

Move expert installation to a separate page, fix bugs so it builds
------------------------------------------------------------------

To avoid confusion, keep the expert and standard installation instructions
completely separate - default link points to the conda-based, with no reference
to the expert installation.

::

  modified: docs/source/releases/index.rst
  modified: docs/source/starter/expert_installation.rst
  modified: docs/source/starter/index.rst
  modified: docs/source/starter/installation.rst

Bug Fixes
=========

Allow get_required_variables to return empty list
-------------------------------------------------

*From issue GEOIPS#285: 2023-06-26, Support having no required variables*

Modify get_required_variables function to return an empty list if no
variables are needed.

::

  geoips/dev/product.py