.. dropdown:: Distribution Statement

 | # # # This source code is protected under the license referenced at
 | # # # https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS.

Version 1.10.0a10 (2023-04-29)
******************************

* Update all new geoips/plugins/yaml files to match new schema implementation
* Update all old yaml_configs/product_params to use shortened plugin names

  * Old YAML configs still used in tests, so updated to simplified plugin names
    to support old tests.  New YAML plugins not yet fully updated for
    shortened plugin names.
* Finalize attributes on all geoips/plugins/modules files

  * interface
  * family
  * name
  * module-level docstring
* Update pyproject.toml entry points to point to module vs function

  * Additionally shortened some of the entry point / plugin names.
    ie, pmw_tb.cmap_37pct -> pmw_37pct
* Replace "description" attribute with "docstring" in BaseInterface
* Allow a list of interfaces to test via command line
* Remove support for testing deprecated interfaces

Enhancements
============

Allow a list of interfaces to test_interfaces, remove deprecated support
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update test_interfaces to allow a list of interfaces to test,
passed in via command line.

Remove support for deprecated interfaces in test_interfaces.py.

::

  modified:   geoips/commandline/test_interfaces.py

Breaking Changes
================

Update to shortened entry point names throughout code
-----------------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#193: 2023-04-27, module-based plugin updates*

Since "name" attribute within module-based plugins and entry point names
were updated to simplified shortened versions, all instances of those
plugin names were updated throughout the code base and all "old" style
YAML product files.  New YAML plugins will be updated through a future
PR since they are currently unused.

* interpolators: pyresample_wrappers.interp -> interp
* algorithms: pmw_tb.pmw -> pmw
* algorithms: sfc_winds.windbarbs -> windbarbs
* algorithms: visir.Night -> Night
* colormaps: pmw_tb.cmap -> pmw

  * NOTE: This will cause some colormaps and algorithms to have the same name.
    They are under different interfaces, but will it cause confusion?
* colormaps: visir.Infrared -> Infrared (and IR_BD, WV)
* colormaps: winds.wind_radii_transitions -> wind_radii_transitions

All "old" product_params YAML files updated accordingly:

* geoips/yaml_configs/product_params/*

Some hard coded instances:

pyresample_wrappers.interp -> interp

::
  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/windbarbs.py


Update code to use func.call vs func
------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#193: 2023-04-27, module-based plugin updates*

Use fname_covg_func.call and covg_func.call vs just _func.

NOTE: These instances will likely change slightly once new YAML plugin
interfaces are fully implemented.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_formatters/metadata_tc.py

Update pyproject.toml entry points to point to module vs function
-----------------------------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#193: 2023-04-27, module-based plugin updates*

New interfaces assume the callable within a plugin is always named "call", thus
entry points can be simplified to point to the module vs the specific function
within the module.

Note: "name" within plugins MUST match the entry point names (first part of line).

::

  pyproject.toml

Updated all yaml files to match new schema implementations.
-----------------------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#192: 2023-04-27, YAML plugin updates*

* Refactored products
* Refactored product_defaults
* Refactored feature_annotators
* Refactored gridline_annotators

Replace "description" attribute with "docstring" in BaseInterface
-----------------------------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#193: 2023-04-27, finalize module plugin attributes*

Update the BaseInterface to require module-level docstring (since
numpy-docstring formatting is already enforced, all Python plugins
will already have a module-level docstring defined, so we do not
have to support deprecated formatting).

Set the explicit "docstring" attribute on the plugin, in addition to __doc__.

Remove the "description" attribute from the module-based plugins.

::

  modified:   geoips/interfaces/base.py

Update all python module-based plugins to use finalized attributes
------------------------------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#193: 2023-04-27, finalize module plugin attributes*

Remove <interface>_type attribute, and added

* interface
* family
* name

Also ensure module-level docstrings are nominally correct.

Must update all entry points in pyproject.toml to point to the module rather
than the function name (since all plugins consistently name the callable
function "call")

::

  modified: pyproject.toml
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/algorithms/*
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/colormaps/*
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/*
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/filename_formatters/*
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/interpolators/*
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_formatters/*
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/*
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/*
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/sector_loaders/*
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/title_formatters/*

Update plugin_module_to_obj function to check for finalized attributes
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#193: 2023-04-29, finalize module plugin attributes*

* Added test for interface attribute.
* Ensure that plugin's interface attribute matches its interface
* Fixed docstring test to error if __docstring__ is empty.

::
  modified: geoips/interfaces/base.py
