.. dropdown:: Distribution Statement

 | # # # This source code is protected under the license referenced at
 | # # # https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS.

Version 1.11.2 (2023-09-06)
***************************

* Bug Fix: Improve end time estimate in SSMIS metadata
* Bug Fix: Rename "time" coordinate to "time_dim" in abi_l2_netcdf reader
* Bug Fix: Fix ASCAT-UHR start and end times
* New: github action for release note PR validation
* New: github action for code linting PR validation
* New: Add ability to filter based on time window from command line
* Git: Add "update_this_release_note" file to geoips repo.
* Docs: Add informative error messages for missing data
* Bug fix: Initialize window_start/end_time variables in config_based procflow
* Test: Update ATMS NetCDF output with correct attribute name
* Bug fix: Remove mkdir $GEOIPS_TESTDATA_DIR from repo_clone_update_install.sh

Enhancements
============

Add informative error messages for missing data
-----------------------------------------------

When starting config_based or single_source procflows,
note if no files were found, or if any individual files
did not exist on disk.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py

Add ability to filter based on time window from command line
------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#341: 2023-09-07, time-based filtering at command line*

Add window_start_time and window_end_time to available command line arguments,
and pass through to all sectoring utilities to enable command line specified
temporal sectoring.

NOTE: Currently dynamic sectors are automatically temporally sectored to
a time range around the dynamic sector, passing window start and end time
OVERRIDES the default dynamic sector-based temporal sectoring - whatever time
window you select at the command line will be used over the default range.

SMAP test script added to only produce the afternoon overpass.  recenter_tc
version of the same test script includes both morning and afternoon images.

::

  modified:   geoips/commandline/args.py
  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py
  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
  modified:   geoips/xarray_utils/data.py
  modified:   tests/scripts/smap.tc.windspeed.imagery_clean.sh

Bug Fixes
=========

Initialize window_start/end_time variables in config_based procflow
-------------------------------------------------------------------

When implementing window start/end time, missed initializing in config_based
procflow.  Always failed if you didn't specify...

::

    geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py

Update time coordinate name when stacking xarray datasets in abi_l2_netcdf reader
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#335: 2023-08-24, Update time coordinate in abi_l2_netcdf reader*

Rename dimension/coordinate from "time" to "time_dim" in abi_l2_reader

 * Only applicable when stacking multiple xarray objects

Update single_source procflow to check for "time_dim" dimension rather than "time"

::

    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/abi_l2_netcdf.py
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py

Improve end time estimate for SSMIS files
-----------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#329: 2023-08-22, Improve end time estimate in SSMIS metadata*

Improve SSMIS file end time in reader metadata

 * SSMIS file end time was previously determined by applying
   a 100minute offset to the start time extracted from the file header.
 * This would lead to end times up to ~10mins off compared to the time
   listed in the file name.
 * Start and end times now determined by parsing the file name. If that fails,
   the start time listed in the header is used, and the end time
   is determined by applying an offset based off the number
   of sensor data records in the SSMIS file.

   * Each sensor data record is roughly equivalent to 45.5 seconds.
   * When parsing time from file, checks if end time is less than start time.
     If this is the case, add a day to the end time.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/ssmis_binary.py

Fix ASCAT-UHR start and end times
---------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#332: 2023-08-23, Fix ASCAT-UHR start and end times*

Check if offset appied to time array creates times more than
one day ahead of the expected day

 * Expected day is parsed from the file name, and offset is determined
   by taking the difference between the expected time and time array in file.
 * If the start time in the final time array is more than one day ahead of the
   expected time, one day is subtracted from the applied offset.

::

    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/ascat_uhr_netcdf.py


Update ASCAT-UHR reader to determine time array needs an offset
---------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#351: 2023-09-12, Update ASCAT-UHR reader*

Check if offset needs to be appied to time array.

 * Recent updates to ASCAT-UHR files now have correct scan time stamps.
 * Compare time stamp to expected date, no offset required if difference
   is less than 86400 seconds.

Update handling of parsing storm name from file name

 * The "scaled" files have slightly different naming format, which
   results in a ValueError instead of an IndexError. (ValueError comes
   from attempting to use datetime.strftime on a non-date string)

Add new test script that tests reader with updated ASCAT-UHR files.

 * Add sector file, output comparison, and add to full_test.sh

::

    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/ascat_uhr_netcdf.py
    modified: tests/integration_tests/full_test.sh
    new file: tests/outputs/ascat_uhr.tc.windspeed.imagery_clean/20230912_011802_AL132023_ascatuhr_metop-c_windspeed_100kts_51p44_1p0.png
    new file: tests/scripts/ascat_uhr.tc.windspeed.imagery_clean.sh
    new file: tests/sectors/tc_bdecks/bal132023.dat

Additional bug fix for ASCAT-UHR start and end times
----------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#332: 2023-09-15, Fix ASCAT-UHR start and end times*

Check if absolute difference between data start time and expected date
is greater than 86400.

Add dedicated test scripts that check all versions of ASCAT-UHR files
that require applied time offsets.

 * Add to full test script.

::

    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/ascat_uhr_netcdf.py
    modified: tests/integration_tests/full_test.sh
    new file: tests/outputs/ascat_uhr.tc.nrcs.imagery_clean/20220911_132830_WP142022_ascatuhr_metop-b_nrcs_105kts_71p22_res1p0-cr300.png
    new file: tests/outputs/ascat_uhr.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs/20230722_234513_AL052023_ascatuhr_metop-b_windbarbs_65kts_63p79_1p0.png
    new file: tests/scripts/ascat_uhr.tc.nrcs.imagery_clean.sh
    new file: tests/scripts/ascat_uhr.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs.sh
    new file: tests/sectors/tc_bdecks/bal052023.dat

Git Workflow
============

Add "update_this_release_note" file to geoips repo
--------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#345: 2023-09-13, add update_this_release_note file*

Track the current version we are working towards with an explicit file that
indicates which release note should be updated.

Oooh, this could also allow us to actually use this file during the PR validation
(make sure that specific release note is added or modified, NOT just any random
v*.rst file. AND we could make sure it is in the index.rst!)

Add a reference to it in CHANGELOG.rst.  This is going to cause the validations
to fail!

This will be updated during the release process - so we have to think about what
version we'll be working towards next while we're completing the current release.

NOTE: Also updated CHANGELOG.rst in template_basic_plugin, template_fusion_plugin,
and geoips_plugin_example.  At least keep those up to date - others can be
updated on a case by case basis as needed.

::

  update_this_release_note
  CHANGELOG.rst
  CHANGELOG_TEMPLATE.rst

github action for code linting PR validation
--------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#331 action to run check_code.sh linters*
*From GEOIPS#347 expand check_code.sh to run on all repos*

Added a workflow file to executue the following linting checks,
bandit, black and flake8. The checks enforce the requirements
for a Pull Request.

This workflow is functional for any plugin repository
within the GeoIPS organization (by cloning both the "current"
repository as well as the geoips repository to allow using
the geoips check_code.sh utility).

Checks out "dev" branch of geoips repo to geoips_dev_utils,
and current PR branch of plugin repo to repo directory name.

Uses "GEOIPS_TOKEN" for authentication.

::

    added: geoips/.github/workflows/check-code.yaml
    modified: geoips/.github/workflows/validate-pull-request.yaml
    modified: geoips/cli.py
    modified: plugins/modules/readers/ssmis_binary.py
    modified: check_code.sh

github action for release note PR validation
--------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#310 action for pull request validation*

Added a workflow file to test for basic policy violations
for the addition of a change log to the release documentation.

* CHANGELOG.rst, CHANGELOG_TEMPLATE.rst, and COMMIT_MESSAGE_TEMPLATE.md
  should NOT be changed
* docs/source/releases/v*.rst SHOULD have modifications
  (new file, or modification to existing file)

::

    added: geoips/.github/workflows/validate-pull-request.yaml

Test Repo Updates
=================

Update ATMS NetCDF output with correct attribute name
-----------------------------------------------------

original_source_file_names -> source_file_names.  No change to data or
attribute contents, only that single attribute name change

::

  modified: tests/outputs/atms.tc.165H.netcdf_geoips/20210809.083826.J01.165H_latitude_longitude.tc2021ep11kevin.nc
