.. dropdown:: Distribution Statement

 | # # # This source code is protected under the license referenced at
 | # # # https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS.

Version 1.13.1 (2024-07-07)
***************************

* Enhancements

  * Add histogram_csv output formatter
  * Add oceansat-3 products
  * Add get_cmap_data_range to products/dev.py
  * Add scipy griddata alpha masking corrections
* Bug Fixes

  * Replace test_data_scat_1.11.2 and 1.11.3 with test_data_scat in unit test
  * Update 89pct colormapper data range to match algorithm
  * Fixed log double printing
* Installation Updates

  * Add git lfs install to config_geoips
  * Add source gitconfigs to base_install
  * Freeze git<2.45 and git-lfs<3.4
  * Ensure github downloads also decompress test data
  * Allow test_data_github clones with only \*.tgz files
  * Freeze netCDF4 < 1.7 due to ABI reader core dump
* Documentation Updates

  * Only required <pkg>_api and releases docs/source directories
  * Require mistune==0.8.4
  * Remove check_old_docs_frozen.py, use git in actions
* Testing Updates

  * Use enviroment variable to control output checker image comparison threshold.
  * If tests pass within threshold but not exactly, include exact diff image in logs
  * Add bio012024.dat B-deck file
  * Remove template_fusion_plugin test calls
  * Update test outputs due to minor pixel differences
  * Pass clobber=True into atms netcdf test script
* Release Updates

  * Update 'update_this_release_note'
  * Add release note for v1.13.1
  * Add release note for v1.13.2, finalize 1.13.1 release

Enhancements
============

Add scipy griddata alpha masking corrections
--------------------------------------------

Per recommendations from Nick Zorn MIT LL, implement alpha masking corrections
to help resolve edge of scan issues when using scipy's griddata interpolation

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/interpolators/utils/interp_scipy.py
  modified: pyproject.toml

Add get_cmap_data_range to products/dev.py
------------------------------------------

To allow pulling ranges separately from algorithm and colormapper plugins,
add an option to geoips/dev/product.py to get the colormapper range.

This should eventually be added directly to the plugin interfaces, but for now
following the template of get_data_range.

::

  modified: geoips/dev/product.py

Add oceansat-3 products
-----------------------

Adding sectored/unsectored products, and adding to scat knmi winds.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/scat_knmi_winds_netcdf.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/yaml/products/oscat.yaml

Add histogram_csv output formatter
----------------------------------

This was inadvertently not added.

::

  new file: geoips/plugins/modules/output_formatters/histogram_csv.py

Bug Fixes
=========

Update 89pct colormapper data range to match algorithm
------------------------------------------------------

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/yaml/product_defaults/pmw_89/89pct.yaml

Replace test_data_scat_1.11.2 and 1.11.3 with test_data_scat in unit test
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

::

  modified:   tests/unit_tests/commandline/cli_top_level_tester.py

Fixed log printing double
-------------------------

Fixed a bug where the new CLI and the old CLI would both create handlers for logging,
resulting in a double printing for stdout logs, and double lines when running
run_procflow. This was fixed by checking for multiple handlers in logging.

::

  modified: geoips/commandline/log_setup.py

Installation Updates
====================

Freeze netCDF4 < 1.7 due to ABI reader core dump
------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

ABI Reader core dumps with netCDF 1.7.1.  1.6 still works.

::

  modified: pyproject.toml

Allow test_data_github clones with only \*.tgz files
----------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

Previously required data, outputs, or docs subdir.  Allow only a tgz file.

::

  modified: setup/check_system_requirements.sh

Ensure github downloads also decompress test data
-------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

Many github repos contain compressed datasets - ensure
data is decompressed after cloning if required.

::

  modified:   setup/check_system_requirements.sh

Freeze git<2.45 and git-lfs<3.4
--------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

Now git and git lfs both break git lfs clones.
Freeze at versions 2.44 and 3.3 until they fix
their bugs.

::

  doc/source/starter/installation.rst

Add git lfs install to config_geoips
------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

::

    modified:   setup/config_geoips

Add source gitconfigs to base_install
-------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

This includes timeout and buffer size updates that
can help with large clones.

::

    modified:   setup/check_system_requirements.sh
    modified:   tests/integration_tests/base_install.sh

Documentation Updates
=====================

Remove check_old_docs_frozen.py, use git in actions
---------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

::

  removed: docs/check_old_docs_frozen.py
  modified: .github/workflows/check-old-docs-frozen.yml

Only required <pkg>_api and releases docs/source directories
------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

Make introduction and userguide optional.

::

  modified:   docs/build_docs.sh
  modified:   docs/source/_templates/index_PKG.html

Require mistune==0.8.4
----------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, bug fixes*

Somehow mistune 3.0.2 was installed once, which had errors

m2r2 = { version = "*", optional = true }
Version 3.0.2 causes error , 0.8.4 works
Unsure why there was such a wide range of version numbers installed.

::

  File "lib/python3.10/site-packages/m2r2.py", line 82, in <module>
  class RestBlockGrammar(mistune.BlockGrammar):
  AttributeError: module 'mistune' has no attribute 'BlockGrammar'

::

  modified:   pyproject.toml

Testing Updates
===============

Use enviroment variable to control output checker image comparison threshold
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Set OUTPUT_CHECKER_THRESHOLD_IMAGE within base_paths - default to 0.05 if env
variable is not set, else use environemnt variable.  Default to base_paths
threshold within the image output checker.

::

  modified: geoips/filenames/base_paths.py
  modified: geoips/interfaces/module_based/output_checkers.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/image.py

If tests pass within threshold but not exactly, include exact diff image in logs
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the test passes the threshold, but images are not identical, include the
exact difference in the log output for reference. This allows tracking what
is actually different, but still allows the test to pass.

::

  modified: geoips/interfaces/module_based/output_checkers.py

Pass clobber=True into atms netcdf test script
----------------------------------------------

When running atms netcdf output test script for a second time without setting
clobber=True, the output does not get written so the test fails. Update netcdf
output formatters to take a "clobber" argument, then add that argument to the
output_formatter_kwargs in the atms test script.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_formatters/netcdf_geoips.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_formatters/netcdf_xarray.py
  modified: tests/scripts/atms.tc.165H.netcdf_geoips.sh

Update test outputs due to minor pixel differences
--------------------------------------------------

A few coastline pixels difference for ABI and AMSR annotated test outputs. Unsure
what caused this, but updating to get 0 return.

::

  modified: tests/outputs/abi.static.Infrared.imagery_annotated/20200918.195020.goes-16.abi.Infrared.goes_east.45p56.noaa.10p0.png
  modified: tests/outputs/abi.static.Visible.imagery_annotated/20200918.195020.goes-16.abi.Visible.goes_east.41p12.noaa.10p0.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.global_overlay.37pct.imagery_annotated_over_Infrared-Gray/20200518.062048.gcom-w1.amsr2.37pct.global.10p06.star.20p0.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.global_overlay.37pct.imagery_annotated_over_Visible/20200518.062048.gcom-w1.amsr2.37pct.global.10p06.star.20p0.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.global_overlay.89pct.imagery_annotated_over_Infrared-Gray/20200518.062048.gcom-w1.amsr2.89pct.global.13p55.star.20p0.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.global_overlay.89pct.imagery_annotated_over_Visible/20200518.062048.gcom-w1.amsr2.89pct.global.13p55.star.20p0.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.tc.89H-Physical.imagery_annotated/20200518_073601_IO012020_amsr2_gcom-w1_89H-Physical_140kts_100p00_res1p0-cr300.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.tc_overlay.37pct.imagery_annotated_over_Infrared-Gray/20200518_073601_IO012020_amsr2_gcom-w1_37pct_140kts_95p89_res1p0-cr100-bgInfrared-Gray.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.tc_overlay.37pct.imagery_annotated_over_Visible/20200518_073601_IO012020_amsr2_gcom-w1_37pct_140kts_95p89_res1p0-cr100-bgVisible.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.tc_overlay.89pct.imagery_annotated_over_Infrared-Gray/20200518_073601_IO012020_amsr2_gcom-w1_89pct_140kts_98p32_res1p0-cr100-bgInfrared-Gray.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.tc_overlay.89pct.imagery_annotated_over_Visible/20200518_073601_IO012020_amsr2_gcom-w1_89pct_140kts_98p32_res1p0-cr100-bgVisible.png

Remove template_fusion_plugin test calls
----------------------------------------

Going to rely on a combination of template_basic_plugin, geoips_plugin_examples,
and data_fusion repos for use cases and examples.  Only maintain a single plugin
template repo.

::

  modified: tests/integration_tests/full_test.sh

Add bio012024.dat B-deck file
-----------------------------

::

  new file:   tests/sectors/tc_bdecks/bio012024.dat

Release Process
===============

Add release note for v1.13.1
----------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, 1.12.4 updates*

All updates until the next release (v1.13.1) will be included in
this release note.

::

  modified: docs/source/releases/v1_13_1.rst
  modified: docs/source/releases/index.rst

Add release note for v1.13.2, finalize 1.13.1 release
-----------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-07-07, 1.13.1 updates*

All updates until the next release (v1.13.2) will be included in
this release note. This finalizes the 1.13.1 release.

::

  modified: docs/source/releases/v1_13_2.rst
  modified: docs/source/releases/index.rst

Update 'update_this_release_note'
---------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#513: 2024-06-01, 1.12.4 release process updates*

All updates until the next release (v1.13.1) will be included in
the release note specified in this file.

::

  modified: update_this_release_note
