.. dropdown:: Distribution Statement

 | # # # This source code is protected under the license referenced at
 | # # # https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS.

Version 1.12.3 (2024-05-15)
***************************

* Formatting Updates

  * Allow setting GEOIPS_LOGGING_LEVEL to override default "interactive"
  * Allow different colors for realtime and admin operational user setups
* Bug fixes

  * Add geolocation variables to geokompsat reader
  * Add output of radiance to geokompsat reader
  * Add geolocation variable masking to AHI reader
  * Ensure all plugin packages are tested in YAML plugin validation
  * Ignore missing import in hrit_reader
  * Fix xarray_to_xarray family
  * Update ANCILDATDIR to GEOIPS_ANCILDAT
  * Appropriately pull resolution from LongName
  * Check for GEOIPS_DB_URI when using database plugin
  * Resolve typos in IR_BD and WV colormappers LOG statements
  * Resolve typo in netcdf output checker log_with_emphasis call
* Enhancements

  * Allow passing pyresample kd_tree arguments to interpolators
  * Allow replacing fields in product_spec_override
  * Add geolocation resampling to VIIRS reader
* Testing Updates

  * Minor updates to geokompsat output image title/labels
  * Update config-based AHI backgrounds for AHI geolocation masking update
  * Use variables[varname] vs getattr(varname) for reader unit tests
  * Update to full path for test_interfaces call in base_test
* Installation Updates

  * Fix versions for xarray, rasterio, and cartopy in pyproject.toml
  * Add current miniconda3 install to path
  * Include mamba.sh setup in geoips_conda_init_setup
  * Add general clone_repo command to check_system_requirements
  * Allow passing arguments to pip
  * Output version-based requirements.txt immediately after base install.
  * Require matplotlib<3.9.0 due to matplotlib.cm.get_cmap deprecation
  * Limit git to <2.45.0 due to bug breaking git lfs clones
* Documentation Updates

  * Allow including additional sections in plugin package documentation
* Release Updates

  * Update 'update_this_release_note'
  * Add release note for v1.12.3
  * Add release note for v1.12.4

Bug Fixes
=========

Check for GEOIPS_DB_URI when using database plugin
--------------------------------------------------

If attempting to use a database plugin, GEOIPS_DB_URI must be set.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflow_configs/single_source.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflow_configs/config_based.py

Appropriately pull resolution from LongName
-------------------------------------------

Was previously pulling the last 4 characters from the "LongName" to get the
resolution, but for NRT data, the LongName ends in "NRT".  Update logic for
setting the resolution to split the string, and ensure we are using the
correct field with the resolution (and not "NRT").

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/viirs_netcdf.py

Update ANCILDATDIR to GEOIPS_ANCILDAT
-------------------------------------

ANCILDATDIR no longer used, update to GEOIPS_ANCILDAT

::

  modified: geoips/filenames/base_paths.py

Ensure all plugin packages are tested in YAML plugin validation
---------------------------------------------------------------

Typo - must test files in pkg.name, not "geoips" over and over.

::

  modified: /tests/unit_tests/plugins/yaml/test_all_yaml_plugins.py

Ignore missing import in hrit_reader
------------------------------------

::

    modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/readers/utils/hrit_reader.py

Add geolocation variables to geokompsat reader
----------------------------------------------

To allow variables like solar_zenith_angle to be passed through for
further processing, add geolocation variables to the GeoKOMPSAT reader.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/geokompsat_netcdf.py

Add output of radiance to geokompsat reader
----------------------------------------------

Allow output of radiance from geokompsat reader, in addition to existing
reflectance and brightness temperature, so that they can be used with
algorithms requiring radiances.

Note unit tests required updating to use VI006Ref and IR112BT, vs VI006 and IR112.

::

  modified: docs/source/releases/v1_12_3.rst
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/geokompsat_netcdf.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/yaml/products/geokompsat.yaml

Add geolocation variable masking to AHI reader
----------------------------------------------

Mask geolocation variables within AHI reader, to ensure
consistent layout for all geostationary satellites.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/ahi_hsd.py

Fix xarray_to_xarray family
---------------------------

Modify xarray_to_xarray family so that it functions correctly.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py

Resolve typo in netcdf output checker log_with_emphasis call
------------------------------------------------------------

Fix typo in log_with_emphasis call in netcdf output checker.  Was calling for every
line, updated to append all lines into a list, then a single call to log_with_emphasis.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/netcdf.py

Resolve typos in IR_BD and WV colormappers LOG statements
---------------------------------------------------------

Fix typo in IR_BD.py and WV.py colormappers LOG.info statements - previously
had a variable without a corresponding %s.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/colormappers/visir/IR_BD.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/colormappers/visir/WV.py

Enhancements
============

Allow replacing fields in product_spec_override
-----------------------------------------------

Allow including field "replace" to product_spec_override, indicating fields
should be entirely replaced vs merged.  This allowed passing a new set of
variables within the yaml procflow config (specifying a explicit dataset to
pull a variable from within the procflow config, rather than only in the
product YAML).  I don't think this is a good final solution, but indicates
the problem that needs to be solved as we finalize the procflow configs and
order based procflow, and solves an immediate need.

::

  modified: geoips/geoips_utils.py
  modified: geoips/interfaces/yaml_based/products.py
  modified: geoips/xarray_utils/time.py

Allow passing pyresample kd_tree arguments to interpolators
-----------------------------------------------------------

Expose pyresample arguments at the command line / config level.

Add nproc argument to AMSR2 test script to confirm functionality.

::

  modified:   geoips/geoips_utils.py
  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/interpolators/pyresample_wrappers/interp_gauss.py
  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/interpolators/pyresample_wrappers/interp_nearest.py
  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/interpolators/utils/interp_pyresample.py
  modified:   tests/scripts/amsr2.tc.89H-Physical.imagery_annotated.sh

Add geolocation resampling to VIIRS reader
------------------------------------------

Allow VIIRS data to be resampled to an area definition, so that it can be used
with stitched data products with geostationary data.

Documentation Updates
=====================

Allow including additional sections in plugin package documentation
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Initial template implementation only allowed explicit sections in
plugin package documentation:

* introduction
* userguide
* API
* releases

Allow optional sections, if defined.
Ie, within build_docs.sh, if docs/source/starter/index.rst file exists
within the plugin package, then replace STARTERIDX in index_PKG.html
with "installation/index", so doc build does not fail due to an RST file that
does not exist in any index.

Allow optional for devguide, deployguide, opguide, starter, and contact:

* docs/source/devguide/index.rst -> DEVIDX
* docs/source/starter/index.rst -> STARTERIDX
* docs/source/contact/index.rst -> CONTACTIDX
* docs/source/deployguide/index.rst -> DEPLOYGUIDEIDX
* docs/source/opguide/index.rst -> OPGUIDEIDX

Note the full list of sections in the GeoIPS documentation are as follows,
in the order specified below
(directory name within docs/source, followed by heading name within index.rst
in parentheses below):

* REQUIRED: introduction (Introduction)
* OPTIONAL: starter (Getting Started)
* REQUIRED: userguide (User Guide)
* OPTIONAL: devguide (Developer Guide)
* OPTIONAL: deployguide (Deployment Guide, NOT in geoips repo)
* OPTIONAL: opguide (Operator Guide, NOT in geoips repo)
* REQUIRED: <pkg>_api (API Reference)
* REQUIRED: releases (Release Notes)
* OPTIONAL: contact (Contact)

Plugin package documentation will follow the same order, only including the
sections included in their docs/source directory.

Also note initially contact was force copied to every plugin repo from the
geoips repo.  No longer force copy contact - if contact section is not
defined in the plugin repo, then no contact information is included.

::

  modified:   docs/build_docs.sh
  modified:   docs/source/_templates/index_PKG.html

Testing Updates
===============

Minor updates to geokompsat output image title/labels
-----------------------------------------------------

This must have initially been added with a different version of matplotlib.
This does not appear to impact the actual image at all, or contents of title/
labels.

::

  modified: tests/outputs/geokompsat.static.Visible.imagery_annotated/20231208.030032.GK-2A.geokompsat.Visible.geokompsat.45p56.nmsc.10p0.png


Update config-based AHI backgrounds for AHI geolocation masking update
----------------------------------------------------------------------

GEOIPS/geoips#479 update caused VERY slightly expanded coverage for AHI, due
to update to geolocation masking. AHI background image is slightly expanded.

::

  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.global_overlay.37pct.imagery_annotated_over_Visible/20200518.062048.gcom-w1.amsr2.37pct.global.10p06.star.20p0.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.global_overlay.89pct.imagery_annotated_over_Visible/20200518.062048.gcom-w1.amsr2.89pct.global.13p55.star.20p0.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.global_overlay.37pct.imagery_annotated_over_Infrared-Gray/20200518.062048.gcom-w1.amsr2.37pct.global.10p06.star.20p0.png
  modified: tests/outputs/amsr2.global_overlay.89pct.imagery_annotated_over_Infrared-Gray/20200518.062048.gcom-w1.amsr2.89pct.global.13p55.star.20p0.png

Use variables[varname] vs getattr(varname) for reader unit tests
----------------------------------------------------------------

Standardize xarray variable access.

::

  modified: tests/unit_tests_long/plugins/modules/readers/test_readers.py

Update to full path for test_interfaces call in base_test
---------------------------------------------------------

Use full path to tests/utils/test_interfaces.py, rather than console script
test_interfaces. test_interfaces is no longer a console script, because it
relies on utilities in the "test" infrastructure, so is non-functional with
a pip install of geoips only.

::

  modified: tests/integration_tests/base_test.sh

Installation Updates
====================

Fix versions for xarray, rasterio, and cartopy in pyproject.toml
----------------------------------------------------------------

Require fixed versions for

* xarray (knmi scat reader bug),
* rasterio (geotiff_standard bug)
* cartopy (test image output gridlines, few pixels difference)

::

  modified: pyproject.toml

Add current miniconda3 install to path
--------------------------------------

Add current miniconda3 install to path, to ensure correct conda is used
during conda env calls.

::

  modified: setup/geoips_conda_init_setup

Include mamba.sh setup in geoips_conda_init_setup
-------------------------------------------------

Also redirect which conda stderr to dev/null to avoid unnecessary
printing to screen.

::

  modified:   setup/geoips_conda_init_setup

Add general clone_repo command to check_system_requirements
-----------------------------------------------------------

Allows consistent error checking, and skipping if it already exists.

::

  setup/check_sysstem_requirements.sh

Allow passing arguments to pip
------------------------------

::

  setup/check_sysstem_requirements.sh

Output version-based requirements.txt immediately after base install
--------------------------------------------------------------------

::

  modified: docs/source/starter/installation.rst

Require matplotlib<3.9.0 due to matplotlib.cm.get_cmap deprecation
------------------------------------------------------------------

Will remove this fixed version as soon as we update matplotlib_linear_norm.py for
latest matplotlib syntax.

::

  modified: pyproject.toml

Limit git to <2.45.0 due to bug breaking git lfs clones
-------------------------------------------------------

git lfs clones fail altogether with git >= 2.45.0. Will remove this restriction
once git fixes their bug.

Formatting Updates
==================

Allow setting GEOIPS_LOGGING_LEVEL to override default "interactive"
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Command line argument takes precedence, then GEOIPS_LOGGING_LEVEL,
then default "interactive".  Allows setting logging level across the
board for ALL processing, without specifying at each command line
call (ie, good for logs).

::

  modified:   geoips/commandline/run_procflow.py

Allow different colors for realtime and admin operational user setups
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Differentiate between admin and realtime setup for operational user.

::

  modified: setup/bash_setup/color_prompts

Release Process
===============

Merge updates from v1.12.2 from github.com
------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#493: 2024-04-30, 1.12.2 release*

::

  modified: docs/source/releases/v1_12_2.rst

Add release note for v1.12.3
----------------------------

*From GEOIPS#458: 2024-02-17, 1.12.1 release*

All updates until the next release (v1.12.3) will be included in
this release note.

::

  modified: docs/source/releases/v1_12_3.rst
  modified: docs/source/releases/index.rst

Update 'update_this_release_note'
---------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#458: 2024-02-17, 1.12.1 release process updates*

All updates until the next release (v1.12.3) will be included in
the release note specified in this file.

::

  modified: update_this_release_note

Update to full path for test_interfaces call in base_test
---------------------------------------------------------

Use full path to tests/utils/test_interfaces.py, rather than console script
test_interfaces. test_interfaces is no longer a console script, because it
relies on utilities in the "test" infrastructure, so is non-functional with
a pip install of geoips only.

::

  modified: tests/integration_tests/base_test.sh

Resolve typo in netcdf output checker log_with_emphasis call
------------------------------------------------------------

Fix typo in log_with_emphasis call in netcdf output checker.  Was calling for every
line, updated to append all lines into a list, then a single call to log_with_emphasis.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/netcdf.py

Add current miniconda3 install to path
--------------------------------------

Add current miniconda3 install to path, to ensure correct conda is used
during conda env calls.

::

  modified: setup/geoips_conda_init_setup
