 | # # # Distribution Statement A. Approved for public release. Distribution unlimited.
 | # # #
 | # # # Author:
 | # # # Naval Research Laboratory, Marine Meteorology Division
 | # # #
 | # # # This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
 | # # # the terms of the NRLMMD License included with this program. This program is
 | # # # distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 | # # # MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the included license
 | # # # for more details. If you did not receive the license, for more information see:
 | # # # https://github.com/U-S-NRL-Marine-Meteorology-Division/

Version 1.10.0a8 (2023-04-27)
*****************************

* Move sector_loaders.dynamic back to sector_spec_generators

  * Originally was area_def_generators
* Move sector_loaders.trackfiles back to sector_metadata_generators

  * Originally was trackfile_parsers

Breaking Changes
================

Move sector_loaders.dynamic to sector_spec_generators
-----------------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#195: 2023-04-26, sector_spec/metadata_generators*

This interface is populating the "spec" portion of a geoips sector object -
a GeoIPS "sector" object requires both "spec" (location information) and
"metadata" (information about the dynamic event driving processing,
ie, tc, volcano, etc)

These were originally called "area_def_generators", but we moved to
sector_loaders.dynamic originally to generalize for multiple use cases.
We since determined they really are generating area definitions, but
should be generalized to "sector_spec_generators" in case we ever
implement a non-area_def based back end.

Note I did not update all of the YAML plugins - they will be updated in
a later PR.

::

  modified: sector_utils/tc_tracks.py
  modified: sector_utils/utils.py
  renamed: geoips/plugins/modules/sector_loaders/dynamic/__init__.py -> geoips/plugins/modules/sector_spec_generators/__init__.py
  renamed: geoips/plugins/modules/sector_loaders/dynamic/clat_clon_resolution_shape.py -> geoips/plugins/modules/sector_spec_generators/clat_clon_resolution_shape.py

Move sector_loaders.trackfiles to sector_metadata_generators
------------------------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#195: 2023-04-26, sector_spec/metadata_generators*

This interface is populating the "metadata" portion of a geoips sector object -
a GeoIPS "sector" object requires both "spec" (location information) and
"metadata" (information about the dynamic event driving processing,
ie, tc, volcano, etc)

These plugins were originally classified under "trackfile_parsers", since
the existing examples are exclusively parsing TC trackfiles (deck files, and
TC-specific flat "sectorfiles"). We originally generalized to place under
sector_loaders/trackfiles, but that was not an entirely accurate classification
since these plugins are ONLY populating the metadata portion of the GeoIPS
sector object, so are not actually "loading" a sector.

Landed on sector_metadata_generators, because these plugins are exclusively
generating the metadata dictionaries for different dynamic sectors.

Note this PR is only updating the location of the module-based plugins, and
updating the code accordingly.  YAML plugins and schema will be updated in
a separate PR.

::

  renamed: geoips/plugins/modules/sector_loaders/trackfiles/__init__.py -> geoips/plugins/modules/sector_metadata_generators/__init__.py
  renamed: geoips/plugins/modules/sector_loaders/trackfiles/bdeck_parser.py -> geoips/plugins/modules/sector_metadata_generators/bdeck_parser.py
  renamed: geoips/plugins/modules/sector_loaders/trackfiles/flat_sectorfile_parser.py -> geoips/plugins/modules/sector_metadata_generators/flat_sectorfile_parser.py
