.. dropdown:: Distribution Statement

 | # # # This source code is protected under the license referenced at
 | # # # https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS.

Version 1.10.0 (2023-05-17)
***************************

* Add v1_10_0.rst release note
* Rename colormaps interface to colormappers
* Add more informative exception messages to interface PluginErrors
* Update setuptools_scm to write to _version.py
* Add interpolator products and product_defaults family schema
* Update variable names for alt_varname in coverage checkers

*From issue GEOIPS#251: 2023-05-17, version update*

Breaking Changes
================

Replace colormaps with colormappers
-----------------------------------

Use a more consistent and accurate name for the color map interface.

::

    modified:   pyproject.toml
    modified:   geoips/cli.py
    modified:   dev/output_config.py
    modified:   dev/product.py
    modified:   interfaces/__init__.py
    modified:   interfaces/module_based/colormappers.py
    modified:   schema/product_defaults/*colormapper*.yaml
    modified:   schema/products/*colormapper*.yaml
    modified:   schema/product_defaults/base/*colormapper*.yaml
    modified:   schema/product_defaults/specs/*colormapper*.yaml
    modified:   plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
    modified:   plugins/modules/colormappers/*/*.py
    modified:   plugins/modules/colormappers/*.py
    modified:   plugins/yaml/product_defaults/*/*.yaml
    modified:   plugins/yaml/product_defaults/Uncorrected-Channel.yaml
    modified:   plugins/yaml/products/*.yaml

Bug fixes
=========

Update variable names for alt_varname in coverage checkers
----------------------------------------------------------

The keyword argument name was changed from alt_varname_for_covg to alt_varname,
but the actual variable names within the functions were not changed.

Updating to match.  I would like to update this to something more reasonable,
but I haven't decided what that is yet.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/center_radius.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/center_radius_rgba.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/masked_arrays.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/numpy_arrays_nan.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/rgba.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/windbarbs.py

Enhancements
============

Add more informative exception messages to interface PluginErrors
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Ensure developer can immediately identify the plugin, package, and module
related to a PluginError or ValidationError message.

::

  modified:   geoips/interfaces/base.py
  modified:   geoips/geoips_utils.py

Add interpolator product family schema
--------------------------------------

Was not initially created

::

  new: schema/products/interpolator.yaml
  new: schema/product_defaults/interpolator.yaml
  new: schema/product_defaults/specs/interpolator.yaml

Refactoring Updates
===================

Update setuptools_scm to write to _version.py vs version.py
-----------------------------------------------------------

This is a more accepted and standard usage. Ensure we ignore the _version.py
file, import from __init__.py, as well as adding to pyproject.toml.

::

  .gitignore
  geoips/__init__.py
  pyproject.toml

Testing Updates
===============

Add full image paths to log output on bad compare
-------------------------------------------------

Add diff image, current image, and "correct" image paths to log output on bad compare.
Makes for easy viewing of outputs.

::

  compare_outputs.py

Release Updates
===============

Add 1.10.0 release note
-----------------------

*From issue GEOIPS#251: 2023-05-17, version update*

::

    modified: CHANGELOG.rst
    new file: docs/source/releases/v1_10_0.rst
    modified: docs/source/releases/index.rst
