.. dropdown:: Distribution Statement

 | # # # This source code is protected under the license referenced at
 | # # # https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS.

Version 1.11.6 (2023-10-30)
***************************

* Add additional clarifying log statements
* Separate black, flake8, and bandit in github actions workflows
* Add replace_geoips_paths from dict and list utilities
* Regression fixes

  * Add "navigation_with_keys" html theme option for sphinx conf
* Bug fixes

  * Fix imports in amsub_hdf reader
  * Put rad2deg back in seviri_hrit.py reader
  * Add rain_flag variable to ascat wind-ambiguities product
  * Add rain_flag_ambiguity variable to ascat noaa readers
  * Add sectored product schema
  * Copy alg and covg args in dev/product.py to avoid overwriting original
  * Pass variable_name to coverage_checker from within metadata_tc output formatter
    and config_based procflow
  * Support "no_presectoring" in procflow configs.
  * Change github actions checkout from v4 to v3
  * Fixed xarray time issue in scat_knmi_netcdf reader
* Documentation Updates

  * Add "navigation_with_keys" html theme option for sphinx conf
* Test repo updates

  * Replace noaa ascat 50km windbarbs test script with wind-ambiguities
  * Include information on differences and filenames in compare_outputs
* Installation Updates

  * Check for 'setup.sh install' first for 'install_plugin',
    then pyproject.toml, then setup.py

Regression fixes
================

Add "navigation_with_keys" html theme option for sphinx conf
------------------------------------------------------------

When a new sphinx version changed the default for the "navigation_with_keys"
field in the html theme dictionary, sphinx began issuing a warning that
the default has changed. Since we error on warning in our sphinx build,
this caused the sphinx build to fail.  Adding the "navigation_with_keys"
field (to the new default of "False") so the warning is no longer
issued.

::

  docs/source/_templates/conf_PKG.py

Bug fixes
=========

Add replace_geoips_paths from dict and list utilities
-----------------------------------------------------

Allow passing a dict or list of values, and replacing
geoips paths throughout as appropriate.

::
  modified:   geoips/geoips_utils.py

Added catch for improper dates in netcdf files
----------------------------------------------

A change in xarray version 2023.9 caused the scat_knmi_winds reader to fail
for some datasets, due to inability to convert the time variable to nanoseconds
internal to xarray open_dataset code. Previous versions of xarray automatically
converted these values to NaT (not a time).

This fix places a try/except around xarray.open_dataset.
If it raises a ValueError then attempts opening xarray.open_dataset
with the "decode_time=False" argument, and calling a new utility
within GeoIPS to mask the invalid dates.

::
  modified:   pyproject.toml
  modified:   docs/source/releases/v1_11_6.rst
  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/readers/scat_knmi_winds_netcdf.py
  modified:   geoips/xarray_utils/time.py

Call replace_geoips_paths_from_dict utility from write_yamldict
---------------------------------------------------------------

When writing out a YAML dictionary, prior to write ensure
all path fields have the geoips environment variables
in place of the full paths as appropriate.

Use new "replace_geoips_paths_from_dict" utility.

::

  modified: geoips/sector_utils/yaml_utils.py

Replace full path with geoips env vars in YAML metadata outputs
---------------------------------------------------------------

Ensure no full paths end up in YAML metadata outputs - always replace all
paths within the YAML dictionary with geoips environment variables as
appropriate. Pass "replace_geoips_paths=True" to the updated
write_yamldict utility to ensure paths are updated to use env vars.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_formatters/metadata_default.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_formatters/metadata_tc.py

Support "no_presectoring" in procflow configs
---------------------------------------------

This was previously only available via command line.  Allow both
within the top level procflow config, or command line.

::

  geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py

Copy alg and covg args in dev/product.py to avoid overwriting original
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Originally the arguments were getting rewritten if more than one sector ran.
Ensure we copy the argument dictionary to avoid being passed by reference and
overwriting the original dictionary.

::

  geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
  geoips/dev/product.py

Add sectored product schema
---------------------------

::

  A       geoips/schema/products/sectored_xarray_dict_area_to_output_format.yaml

Fix imports in amsub_hdf reader
-------------------------------

::

  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/readers/amsub_hdf.py

Put rad2deg back in seviri_hrit.py reader
-----------------------------------------

This is used in numexpr, do not remove. Add NOQA so it is not flagged by flake8.

::

  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/readers/seviri_hrit.py

Add rain_flag_ambiguity variable to ascat wind-ambiguities product
------------------------------------------------------------------

Expect rain_flag_ambiguity, wind_speed_kts_ambiguity, and
wind_dir_deg_met_ambiguity variables all of the same shape for
wind-ambiguities products.

::

  modified:   geoips/plugins/yaml/products/ascat.yaml

Add rain_flag_ambiguity variable to ascat noaa reader
-----------------------------------------------------

Rain flag ambiguity variable shares same dimension as wind-ambiguity variables.

This variable is required for wind-ambiguities products.

::

  modified:   geoips/plugins/modules/readers/scat_noaa_winds_netcdf.py

Documentation Updates
=====================

Add clarifying log statements to various scripts
------------------------------------------------

During debugging, identified additional log statements to add for clarification.

* Note number of storms returned from tc_tracks_database
* Update useful log lines in tc tracks db to interactive
* Include expected area_defs when getting command line area_defs (so we have
  a better idea what went wrong when we get no sectors)
* Add interactive logs with filenames, etc for unsectored products

::

    M       geoips/sector_utils/tc_tracks_database.py
    M       geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
    M       geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py

GitHub Actions Updates
======================

Separate black, flake8, and bandit in github actions workflows
--------------------------------------------------------------

To allow applying these individually to different repos, as required, place them
in independent workflows.

::

  D .github/workflows/check-code.yaml
  A .github/workflows/bandit.yaml
  A .github/workflows/black.yaml
  A .github/workflows/flake8.yaml

Test Repo Updates
=================

Include information on differences and filenames in compare_outputs
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Include number of pixels within tolerance, as well as the exact number
of pixels difference.

Additionally issue "error" messages rather than "warning" when there
are bad or missing compares/products.  Error displays in interactive
level, but warning does not (and they are legitimately errors).

::

  M geoips/compare_outputs.py

Replace noaa ascat 50km windbarbs test script with wind-ambiguities
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Test both windbarbs and wind-ambiguities for noaa ascat reader.
Replace noaa 50km windbarbs test script with wind-ambiguities.

::

    M       tests/integration_tests/full_test.sh
    M       tests/test_all.sh
    R094    tests/scripts/ascat_noaa_50km.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs.sh
            tests/scripts/ascat_noaa_50
            km.tc.wind-ambiguities.imagery_windbarbs.sh
    A       tests/outputs/ascat_noaa_50km.tc.wind-ambiguities.
            imagery_windbarbs/
            20230524_235200_WP022023_ascat_metop-c_wind-ambiguities_135kts_50p08_1p1.png
    R092    tests/outputs/ascat_noaa_50km.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs/
            20230524_235200_WP022023_ascat_metop-c_windbarbs_135kts_50p08_1p1.png.yaml
            tests/outputs/ascat_noaa_50km.tc.wind-ambiguities.imagery_windbarbs/
            20230524_235200_WP022023_ascat_metop-c_wind-ambiguities_135kts_50p08_1p1.png.yaml
    D       tests/outputs/ascat_noaa_50km.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs/
            20230524_235200_WP022023_ascat_metop-c_windbarbs_135kts_50p08_1p1.png

Installation Updates
====================

Check for setup.sh first for install, then pyproject.toml, then setup.py
------------------------------------------------------------------------

No longer check for setup_<package>.sh. Now default to 'setup.sh install',
then pyproject.toml, then setup.py.

Note if setup.sh script is included for a plugin package, the 'install'
command MUST be defined or installation will fail when running
'geoips/setup.sh install_plugin'

::

  modified: setup.sh
