.. dropdown:: Distribution Statement

 | # # # This source code is protected under the license referenced at
 | # # # https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS.

Version 1.12.0 (2023-12-07)
***************************

* Bug fixes

  * Ensure create_plugin_registries fails on bad plugins
  * Update test_dtree to compare attributes rather than full datatree
  * Fix GEOIPS_VERS in config_geoips setup file
  * Check for unit_tests directory before running pytest in check_code.sh
  * Fix build_docs.sh geoips template paths
  * Call identify_checker and get_plugin separately for output_checkers
* Testing updates

  * Add extensive YAML procflow config, including many options
  * Allow gunzipping current output to scratch location during tests
  * Update compare_outputs to print netcdf attr diffs to logs
  * Update ATMS test outputs with new platform name
  * Remove long running unit tests from output checkers
  * Separate long and short running unit tests in check_code.sh
  * Use explicit list of valid interfaces for validating plugin_registries.
* Enhancements

  * Rename JPSS-01/02 platform name to noaa-20/21 in ATMS reader
  * Add hy-2d platform to scat knmi winds reader
  * Allow filtering products based on platform name
  * Allow passing plugin_package name to create_plugin_registries
* Release updates

  * Update 'update_this_release_note'
  * Add release note for v1.12.0
* Actions

  * Add test_interfaces GitHub Actions Workflow
  * Add pytest GitHub Actions Workflow
  * Add build_docs GitHub Actions Workflow
* Refactor

  * Update imports related to geoips database modules

Enhancements
============

Allow passing plugin_package name to create_plugin_registries
-------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#422: 2023-12-14, 1.12.0 release bug fixes*

Either create all plugin registries (one argument), or a single
registry (pass package name to create_plugin_registries)

::

  modified: geoips/create_plugin_registries.py

Call identify_checker and get_plugin separately for output_checkers
-------------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#422: 2023-12-14, 1.12.0 release bug fixes*

* Remove EntryPointError

  * EntryPointError no longer needed (not using EntryPoints for individual plugins)
  * Removed from interfaces/base.py - get_plugin should never raise EntryPointError
* Remove find_entry_point, list_entry_points, and get_all_entry_points

  * No longer used since entry points are not used for individual plugins.
  * Plugin registries are now used exclusively for finding plugins, so we do
    not need individual entry points (only a single entry point for each plugin
    package).
* Call identify checker and get_plugin separately from procflows

  * Rather than having a special case in base.py get_plugin and
    output_checkers get_plugin which allowed passing in full paths
    to output products and automatically identifying the checker
    name and opening it, just explicitly call ``identify_checker``
    and ``get_plugin`` separately from the procflows.
  * single_source, config_based, and data_fusion procflows all now
    call ``identify_checker`` on the output product filename, and
    ``get_plugin`` on the resulting checker plugin name.
  * This simplified a lot of logic in both ``output_checkers`` and
    ``interfaces/base.py``. Supporting passing a filename to
    ``output_checkers.get_plugin()`` was unnecessarily complicated.
* Added log.interactive when sector has no coverage

::

  M geoips/errors.py
  M geoips/geoips_utils.py
  M geoips/interfaces/base.py
  M geoips/interfaces/module_based/output_checkers.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py


Allow filtering products based on platform name
-----------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#343: 2023-12-02, filter products by platform*

Allow specifying a list of products to either include or exclude on
a per-product basis.

In plot_data, if the alg_xarray platform name IS in exclude_platforms,
or IS NOT in include_platforms if it exists, then DO NOT plot the current
product.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py


If `plot_data` does not return any products, then do not append to
the final products list and continue.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py

Updated SSMI/S product YAML to exclude 150H (ch8).  This channel has
been bad since shortly after launch.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/yaml/products/ssmis.yaml

Added some more informative output to bdeck parser for incorrectly
formatted files in the process:

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/sector_metadata_generators/bdeck_parser.py

Add ``exclude_platforms`` and ``include_platforms`` options to low memory abi
procflow config. Currently only the ``exclude_platforms`` option is tested
through the new test script, but include both for reference.

::

  modified: tests/yaml_configs/abi_test_low_memory.yaml
  new: tests/scripts/abi.config_based_exclude_goes17.sh

BUG FIX: added a missing found_one variable to missing products check.

::

  modified: geoips/interfaces/module_based/output_checkers.py

Rename JPSS-01/02 platform name to noaa-20/21 in ATMS reader
------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#394: 2023-11-08, atms platform names*

JPSS-01 and JPSS-02 were renamed to noaa-20 and noaa-21.

* Updating platform name in ATMS reader will make naming
  consistent with VIIRS reader.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/atms_hdf5.py

Add hy-2d platform to scat knmi winds reader
--------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#418: 2023-11-30, add hy2*

Added HY-2D HSCAT platform to supported platforms in scat_knmi_winds_netcdf
reader. Maps internal attributes to GeoIPS platform and source name.

::

  geoips/plugins/modules/readers/scat_knmi_winds_netcdf.py

Bug Fixes
=========

Fix build_docs.sh geoips template paths
---------------------------------------

Had accidentally broken these when trying to get actions to work

::

  docs/build_docs.sh

Check for unit_tests directory before running pytest in check_code.sh
---------------------------------------------------------------------

This was failing on repos with no unit tests directories.

::

  modified: tests/utils/check_code.sh

Update test_dtree to compare attributes rather than full datatree
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Due to xarray datatree package update, must now compare attributes
on datatree rather than full datatree.  pytests began failing due
to updated datatree package.

::

  modified: tests/unit_tests/xarray_utils/test_dtree.py

Ensure create_plugin_registries fails on bad plugins
----------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#415: 2023-11-27, registry fail on bad plugins*

Updated create_plugin_registries to reliably error on improperly formatted
plugins.  ALL python plugins now MUST include the `interface` variable at
the top level, and if `interface` != `None`, then `interface`, `family`,
and `name` must ALL be specified.  This allows us to always fail on an
explicit error in a python module within the plugins directory, so we
can ensure no files are silently skipped.  Previously any plugin that
raised an `ImportError` or did not contain `interface`, `family`, and
`name` would just be silently skipped (since we were assuming they
were not intended to be a valid plugin), but this would result in any
plugin that happened to have a typo in `interface`, `family`, `name`,
or had a legitimate `ImportError` at the top level to be silently skipped
with no feedback or indication that there may be a problem.  Now we are
very explicit about the error catching, and ONLY skip files that explicitly
have `interface = None` set at the top level. Any other errors will be
caught, raised, and reported.

Note this may not be the final layout for handling non-plugins, discussion:
https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips/issues/407

Added a number of comments (largely regarding the new `interface = None`
requirement, as well as clarification on appending string error messages
to the `error_message` variable to raise once at the end of processing)

::

  modified: geoips/create_plugin_registries.py

Update geoips/interfaces/base.py and geoips/create_plugin_registries.py
to allow relative imports within modules. Previously the
spec.loader.exec_module function was passed just the module_name, which
caused relative imports within modules to fail, because exec_module
could not resolve the full path since no parent was specified.  This
resolves the ImportError for the seviri reader.

::

  modified: geoips/interfaces/base.py
  modified: geoips/create_plugin_registries.py

Remove all individual plugin entry points from pyproject.toml (only require
a single plugin_package entry point now, since all plugins are discovered
during the create_plugin_registries phase. Console scripts will also still
need to be defined if required).

::

  modified: pyproject.toml

Add `interface = None` to all utility helper modules in the ``plugins``
directory.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/filename_formatters/utils/tc_file_naming.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/interpolators/utils/boxdefinitions.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/interpolators/utils/interp_pyresample.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/interpolators/utils/interp_scipy.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/utils/geostationary_geolocation.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/utils/hrit_reader.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/readers/utils/remss_reader.py

Fix GEOIPS_VERS in config_geoips setup file
-------------------------------------------

Sort tags by creation date to identify latest version

::

    modified: setup/config_geoips

Testing Updates
===============

Add extensive YAML procflow config, including many options
----------------------------------------------------------

::

  new file: scripts/amsr2.config_based_no_compare_full.sh
  new file: yaml_configs/amsr2_no_compare_full.yaml

Use explicit list of valid interfaces for validating plugin_registries
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Explicitly set ``module_based_interfaces`` and ``yaml_based_interfaces`` lists
in geoips/interfaces/__init__.py (and combine them to set __all__), then use
those lists to determine the valid plugin interfaces during plugin registry
validation in ``geoips/plugin_registry.py``.  The same format can be used
from other repositories to enable plugin interface name validation for
interfaces defined in other plugin packages.  Additionally, ignore flake8
error F401 in `*/interfaces/__init__.py`, unused import, since the interface
names are no longer set directly in __all__ they are not recogzied as used.

::

  modified: geoips/interfaces/__init__.py
  modified: geoips/plugin_registry.py
  modified: .config/flake8

Separate long and short running unit tests in check_code.sh
-----------------------------------------------------------

Previously ran ALL tests in geoips/tests, now have pytest_short
and pytest_long options to run ``geoips/tests/unit_tests`` and
``geoips/tests/unit_tests_long``.  pytest is still called directly
from the workflows, but this ensures check_code.sh works most closely
to how the GitHub Actions workflows operate (since ``pytest-short`` workflow
only operates on ``unit_tests`` directory, ensure you can break up pytests
from ``check_code.sh`` as well.)

::

  modified: tests/utils/check_code.sh

Remove long running unit tests from output checkers
---------------------------------------------------

Currently all unit tests under `output_checkers` interface are run with
the "short" running unit tests. The developer should be able to specify
individual unit tests under a given interface to allow "long" running
unit tests (so they are not run with the short running tests).

Currently, the standard unit testing function names have been modified
to include "_long" - and within the output checkers unit testing
infrastructure any unit testing functions named ``get_test_files_long``
and ``perform_test_comparison_long`` are explicitly xfailed, with the
intent to implement long running output comparisons in the future.

Additional discussion / review required before fully implementing
the long/short running unit tests for each interface, so currently
just disabling these tests.

Note also the real reason for disabling the geotiff tests is that
they are using test data found in the "tests/outputs" directory,
which is not available when pip installing geoips from GitHub
Actions.  This is another discussion point for review, as we could
either continue running the `geotiff` output checker as written,
and just assume tests/outputs will be available for the "long"
running unit tests.  Or we could disallow using `tests/outputs`
within unit tests.  But for now, this unit test will just be
disabled by xfailing on "long" unit tests.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/geotiff.py
  modified: tests/unit_tests/plugins/modules/output_checkers/test_output_checkers.py

Allow gunzipping current output to scratch location during tests
----------------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#412: 2023-11-27, gunzip in output checkers*

Add clobber gunzip to *get_compare_products* OutputCheckersBasePlugin
method (first time attempting to access the comparison product), and
clobber gunzip to OutputCheckersInterface *identify_checker* method
(ie, first time attempting to access the current output product).
All subsequent gunzip_product calls use clobber=False (so we only gunzip
once per run, but we always gunzip the first time through).

Create individual functions for each piece of the output comparison checks
and reporting. Call these individual functions and methods from
*compare_outputs* method (all of this stuff used to be directly in
*compare_outputs*).

* Create the files that are sourced for copying/deleting files to update
  test repos

  * *write_bad_comparisons_to_file* (cp_BADCOMPARES.txt) - update test outputs that
    were modified, but not renamed
  * *write_remove_temp_files_to_file* (rm_TEMPFILES.txt) - remove temporarily
    uncompressed files from scratch location
  * *write_missing_products_to_file* (rm_MISSINGPRODUCTS.txt) - remove files
    from test output location that did NOT existing in the output from the
    current run
  * *write_missing_comparisons_to_file* (cp_MISSINGCOMPARE.txt) - copy files
    from output path of current run to test output directory - files that did
    NOT exist in the test output path, but were found in the current output.
  * *write_good_comparisons_to_file* (cp_GOODCOMPARE.txt) - copy files from
    output of current run that matched test output files exactly to a single
    directory.  This is just for convenience (so all outputs are in one place),
    and not helpful for keeping test outputs up to date.
* Consolidate *log_with_emphasis* function for outputting asterisks before
  and after list of log output lines.
* Functions for identifying missing and bad output files

  * *get_missing_products* function, compare list of current outputs to
    dictionary of comparison test outputs - return list of products that
    were found in the current run but NOT found in the comparison test output
    directory.

    * NOTE: this must handle gunzipped test outputs correctly!
  * *get_compare_products* method - get a dictionary containing all the
    comparison products in the comparison test output path. This handles
    gunzipping the comparison products as required, and storing the
    full paths to the original *stored_comparison* file,
    the *gunzipped_comparison* file, and the *file_for_comparison*
    that should actually be used for the image comparisons. Returns
    the dictionary of comparison products, and a list of temp files
    that will need to be removed (written to scratch directory).
  * *perform_comparisons* method - compare the list of *output_products* from
    the current run to the dictionary of *compare_products* in the test outputs
    directory. Return all associated good, bad, missing comparison file lists.

* Functions for gunzipping - these were previously methods, move to functions
  so generally accessible.

  * *is_gz* function - Call from *is_gz* method.
  * *gunzip_product* function - gunzip to $GEOIPS_OUTDIRS scratch directory,
    separate sub directories for comparison and output products. "clobber"
    argument for forcing overwrite of existing file (typically do NOT overwrite).
    Call from *gunzip_product* method.
  * Remove *gzip_product* method - no longer required.

Note many of these functions and methods use a ``diffdir`` argument, which
is used for both writing out the diff images and scripts, as well as
determining the final path for the updated output comparison files
(relative to diffdir).  This will later be updated to separate the diffdir
from the test output comparison path, allowing us to specify the temporary
output directory for the diff images and scripts separately from the actual
test output comparison path.

* ``temp_path`` - will be diff images and scripts
* ``compare_path`` - will be path to the test output comparison files

::

  modified: geoips/interfaces/module_based/output_checkers.py

Update image list to just png, jpg, and jpeg extensions.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/image.py

Remove all references to gunzipping test outputs in source repos from
check_system_requirements.sh. NOTE gunzipping will still happen in test
data repos, but not for test outputs (anything that is gzipped in the
test output datasets will automatically be gunzipped during the testing
process.  test data repositories are still gunzipped in advance as needed).

Also remove the uncompress_test_data.sh script from tests/outputs - no
longer required.

::

  removed: tests/uncompress_test_data.sh
  modified: setup/check_system_requirements.sh


Update compare_outputs to print netcdf attr diffs to logs
---------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#394: 2023-11-08, atms platform names*

Ensure netcdf attribute diffs are printed at the interactive level, was
still printing to info level. Also, move dividing asterisk line to after
the attr diffs.

::

  geoips/compare_outputs.py

Rename JPSS-01 platform name to noaa-20 in ATMS test output
-----------------------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#394: 2023-11-08, atms platform names*
*From GEOIPS#394: 2023-11-30, atms platform names*

Replaced "J01" with "noaa-20" in ATMS netCDF test output file name.
I think this was renamed 8 Nov, then attrs updated 30 Nov.

::

  renamed:    tests/outputs/atms.tc.165H.netcdf_geoips/20210809.083826.J01.165H_latitude_longitude.tc2021ep11kevin.nc -> tests/outputs/atms.tc.165H.netcdf_geoips/20210809.083826.noaa-20.165H_latitude_longitude.tc2021ep11kevin.nc
  modified: tests/outputs/atms.tc.165H.netcdf_geoips/20210809.083826.noaa-20.165H_latitude_longitude.tc2021ep11kevin.nc

GitHub Actions
==============

Add test_interfaces GitHub Actions Workflow
-------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#342: 2023-12-01, github actions test interfaces*

Sets up python enviroment and pip installs geoips.
Then runs the check_code.sh interfaces command. Note this command
operates on all installed plugins, so only needs to be called once
from `geoips_dev_utils`, and not separately from each plugin repo.

Activate python environment for each step.

::

  .github/workflows/test-interfaces.yaml

Add pytest GitHub Actions Workflow
----------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#342: 2023-12-01, github actions test interfaces*

Sets up python enviroment and pip installs geoips.
Then runs the "short" pytest unit tests in tests/unit_tests in both the geoips repo
and the current plugin repo.  If the current plugin repo is `geoips`, only run
pytest once.

Activate python environment for each step.

::

  .github/workflows/pytest.yaml

Add build_docs GitHub Actions Workflow
--------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#342: 2023-12-01, github actions test interfaces*

Sets up python enviroment and pip installs geoips.
Initial attempt at running docs/build_docs.sh - not yet fully functional,
will finalize in a separate PR.

First step in updating build_docs.sh required removing the `GEOIPS_PACKAGES_DIR`
environment variable (which also involved removing `GEOIPS_PACKAGES_DIR` from
any required environment variables in base_paths.py)

::

  new: .github/workflows/build_docs_html.yaml
  modified: docs/build_docs.sh
  modified: geoips/filenames/base_paths.py

Release Process
===============

Add release note for v1.12.0
----------------------------

*From GEOIPS#376: 2023-11-01, release process updates*

*From GEOIPS#408: 2023-11-19, release process updates*

All updates until the next release (v1.12.0) will be included in
this release note.

::

  modified: docs/source/releases/v1_12_0.rst
  modified: docs/source/releases/index.rst

Update 'update_this_release_note'
---------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#376: 2023-11-01, release process updates*

*From GEOIPS#408: 2023-11-19, release process updates*

All updates until the next release (v1.12.0) will be included in
the release note specified in this file.

::

  modified: update_this_release_note

Refactor
========

Update imports related to geoips database modules
-------------------------------------------------

All geoips_db plugins now accessed through class-based geoips_db interface.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
