.. dropdown:: Distribution Statement

 | # # # This source code is protected under the license referenced at
 | # # # https://github.com/NRLMMD-GEOIPS.

Version 1.11.1 (2023-08-16)
***************************

* Fix coverage checker argument handling.
* Resolve flake8, black, and sphinx formatting errors.
* Change test log output location to GEOIPS_OUTDIRS`

Bug fixes
=========

Use GEOIPS_OUTDIRS for test log location
-----------------------------------------

To allow for shared read-only test data directories, write test log outputs to
$GEOIPS_OUTDIRS/logs vs $GEOIPS_TESTDATA_DIR/logs.

$GEOIPS_OUTDIRS is required anyway.

::

  modified: tests/utils/test_all_pre.sh

Fix broken pytest for area_definition_static sectors
----------------------------------------------------

Replace references to the area_definition family with area_definition_static

::

    M geoips/tests/test_pytest/test_plugin_schema/good/sectors/area_definition_static.yaml
    R geoips/tests/test_pytest/test_plugin_schema/good/sectors/area_definition.yaml --> geoips/tests/test_pytest/test_plugin_schema/good/sectors/area_definition_static.yaml

Remove extra blank lines after docstrings
-----------------------------------------

Resolve flake8 docstring formatting errors.

::

  M geoips/plugins/modules/colormappers/tpw/tpw_cimss.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/colormappers/tpw/tpw_purple.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/center_radius.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/center_radius_rgba.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/numpy_arrays_nan.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/windbarbs.py

Add 1.11.1a0 to release note index
----------------------------------

Resolve build_docs.sh error.

::

  M docs/source/releases/index.rst

Fix black formatting
--------------------

Resolve black check_code.sh errors.

::

  M geoips/interfaces/base.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/center_radius.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/center_radius_rgba.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/masked_arrays.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/numpy_arrays_nan.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/rgba.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/windbarbs.py
  M geoips/plugins/modules/filename_formatters/geoips_fname.py
  M geoips/sector_utils/estimate_area_extent.py

Fix coverage checker argument handling.
---------------------------------------

Pass only variable_name, and within single_source.py, if variable_name is not
defined default to the product name.  If variable_name is defined, ALWAYS use it,
do not attempt to fall back on another variable within the coverage checker itself.

Also, if covg_args["variable_name"] is specified as DATASET_NAME:VARIABLE_NAME,
just pull the VARIABLE_NAME when passing to coverage checkers, since it is assumed
we have already preprocessed into a single alg_xarray, so the VARIABLE_NAME will exist.

::

  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/center_radius.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/center_radius_rgba.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/masked_arrays.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/numpy_arrays_nan.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/rgba.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/coverage_checkers/windbarbs.py
  modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py


Release Updates
===============

Add 1.11.1 release note
-----------------------

*From issue GEOIPS#318: 2023-08-16, version update*

::

    new file: docs/source/releases/v1_11_1.rst
    modified: docs/source/releases/index.rst


Refactoring Updates
===================

Change static_sector_spec to area_definition in all sector schema
-----------------------------------------------------------------

*No related issue*

* To allow additional static_sector families in the future, this changes
  static_sector_spec to area_definition in all sector schema.

::

    modified:   geoips/schema/sectors/area_definition_atmosriver.yaml
    modified:   geoips/schema/sectors/area_definition_pyrocb.yaml
    modified:   geoips/schema/sectors/area_definition_static.yaml
    modified:   geoips/schema/sectors/area_definition_stitched.yaml
    modified:   geoips/schema/sectors/area_definition_tc.yaml
    modified:   geoips/schema/sectors/area_definition_volcano.yaml
    renamed:    geoips/schema/sectors/specs/static_sector_spec.yaml --> geoips/schema/sectors/specs/area_definition.yaml
