 | # # # Distribution Statement A. Approved for public release. Distribution unlimited.
 | # # #
 | # # # Author:
 | # # # Naval Research Laboratory, Marine Meteorology Division
 | # # #
 | # # # This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
 | # # # the terms of the NRLMMD License included with this program. This program is
 | # # # distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 | # # # MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the included license
 | # # # for more details. If you did not receive the license, for more information see:
 | # # # https://github.com/U-S-NRL-Marine-Meteorology-Division/

Version 1.13.0a0 (2024-04-24)
*****************************

* Enhancements

  * Initial Stage of the GeoIPS CLI
  * CLI Stage Two - new implementation of 'geoips run' and more args for 'geiops list'
* Release Updates

  * Update update_this_release_note
  * Add v1_13_0a0.rst release note

Enhancements
============

Initial Stage of the GeoIPS CLI
-------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#37: 2022-08-11, Create a useful CLI for GeoIPS.*

GeoIPS currently runs off of a few command scripts scattered throughout the code. The
only way a user could discover this is by reading the documentation, or looking through
the pyproject.toml to discover what scripts/commands are executable at the commandline.

To fix this, we are beginning to implement a new GeoIPS CLI, which will be called via
``geoips <command> <sub-command>``. This will allow the user to easily query and/or
execute geoips without having extensive knowledge of the lower-level implementations of
GeoIPS.

Currently, the GeoIPS CLI implements config, get, list, run, and validate commands. We
expect that we will change how ``run`` works, as well as add additional commands such as
``test``.

You can find more detailed information about each command at
``geoips/geoips/commandline/ancillary_info/cmd_instructions.yaml``. Below, we'll detail
to a minimal extent what each command does.

``geoips config`` implements configuration commands which are used to modify and/or
set up your GeoIPS environment. Currently, we implement installation methods for
downloading and decompressing test datasets. This is called via
``geoips config install <test_dataset_name>``.

``geoips get`` implements a variety of commands which retrieve additional information
about GeoIPS artifacts. Artifacts are a high level term for software pieces implemented
throughout GeoIPS. This includes individual plugins, interfaces, families, and top-level
packages.

``geoips list`` implements a variety of list methods which are used to detail what
artifacts exist throughout the GeoIPS Environment, or at a package specific level. We
currently support listing an individual interface, available interfaces, implemented
interfaces in a certain/all package[s], packages, scripts, and test-datasets.

``geoips run`` is an easy way to run a certain test script contained within a GeoIPS
package. These scripts must be placed in the ``<pkg_name>/tests/scripts`` directory and
be implemented via a ``*.sh`` bash script. This is an easier method to run your test
scripts opposed to traversing to the explicit directory and running the bash script
manually. We expect this command will change greatly as we continue to develop the CLI
and implement the order based procflow.

``geoips test`` implements a few methods to run testing scattered throughout GeoIPS
and other GeoIPS packages. It functions similar to run, but instead of being limited
to just executing normal test scripts, we can also run integration tests, liniting,
and unit tests. Since we expect ``geoips run`` to change in the future, we've
implemented this command to execute testing protocols for the foreseeable future.

``geoips validate`` implements a simple method of validating a certain plugin found
at the specified filepath. We expect this command will do more in the future, but for
the meantime, this command will validate the plugin using the associated interface
defined in the aforementioned plugin.

For an example of how to run the GeoIPS CLI, see the code section below.
.. code-block:: bash

    # Install the test_data_clavrx Test Dataset from CIRA's Nextcloud Instance
    geoips config install test_data_clavrx
    # All Interfaces GeoIPS and other GeoIPS Packages will be listed including all of
    # The plugin names that exist in that type of interface
    geoips list interface algorithms
    # Retrieve the 'single_channel' algorithm plugin and output information related
    # to it
    geoips get plugin algorithms single_channel
    # Will run the script under <script_name>.sh as it would execute ./<script_name>.sh
    # run_procflow command in the corresponding tests/scripts directory
    geoips run geoips abi.static.Infrared.imagery_annotated.sh
    # Example of how to validate a specific plugin
    geoips validate /home/evan/geoips/geoips_packages/geoips/geoips/plugins/yaml/products/abi.yaml

::

    modified: geoips/geoips/interfaces/base.py
    modified: geoips/.gitignore
    modified: geoips/pyproject.toml
    added: geoips/docs/source/userguide/command_line.rst
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/ancillary_info/cmd_instructions.json
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/ancillary_info/cmd_instructions.yaml
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/commandline_interface.py
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/geoips_command.py
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/geoips_config.py
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/geoips_get.py
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/geoips_list.py
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/geoips_run.py
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/geoips_test.py
    added: geoips/geoips/commandline/geoips_validate.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/cli_top_level_tester.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_config_install.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_get_family.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_get_interface.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_get_package.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_get_plugin.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_interface.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_interfaces.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_packages.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_plugins.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_scripts.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_test_datasets.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_unit_tests.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_run.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_test_linting.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_test_script.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_test_unit_test.py
    added: geoips/tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_test_validate.py

CLI Stage Two
-------------

*From GEOIPS#455: 2024-03-21, CLI Stage Two*

With the addition of the GeoIPS CLI
(*From GEOIPS#37: 2022-08-11, Create a useful CLI for GeoIPS.*), we now have access to
a wide array of commands to interact with GeoIPS. The purpose of this PR is to enhance
the GeoIPS CLI with new and improved functionality. Specifically this PR addresses the
``geoips run`` command and adds additional arguments (``--columns, --long``) to
``geoips list`` commands.

``geoips run`` now invokes the same process as what ``run_procflow`` and
``data_fusion_procflow`` do. We've made this change to allow process workflow
functionality to become part of the CLI rather than a separate commandline entrypoint
that was hard to discover. Eventually, it would be nice to move all independent
commandline entrypoints onto the CLI. Such as ``create_plugin_registries``,
``create_sector_image``, etc. To use ``geoips run``, simply replace ``run_procflow``
or ``data_fusion_procflow`` with ``geoips run <specified_procflow>``, keeping the
remaining arguments the exact same. We have deprecated the use of the old procflow calls
and the ``--procflow <specified_procflow>`` flag as that information is now obtained by
the ``geoips run <specified_procflow>`` call. Below is an example of what a new
procflow script looks like:

::

    geoips run single_source $GEOIPS_TESTDATA_DIR/test_data_noaa_aws/data/goes16/20200918/1950/* \
        --reader_name abi_netcdf \
        --product_name Infrared \
        --compare_path "$GEOIPS_PACKAGES_DIR/geoips/tests/outputs/abi.static.<product>.imagery_annotated" \
        --output_formatter imagery_annotated \
        --filename_formatter geoips_fname \
        --resampled_read \
        --logging_level info \
        --sector_list goes_east

As stated above, we also added new optional arguments to all ``geoips list`` commands.
These arguments are shared and are only specified once via the ``GeoipsListCommon``
class. The two new optional arguments are ``--long`` and ``--columns <col_header> ...``.
``--long`` is the default for all ``geoips list`` commands and specifies that all
headers should be outputted. ``--columns <col_header> ...`` Specifies which columns
you'd like outputted via the ``geoips list`` command. For example, if we ran
``geoips list interface algorithms``, we'd get the ``--long`` format outputted. Running
``geoips list interface algorithms --columns package interface plugin_type relpath``
provides us table output with only those specified columns. Available columns differ
by list command.

Modified Files

::

    added: tests/integration_tests/cli_dummy_integration.sh
    added: tests/integration_tests/cli_dummy_script.sh
    modified: geoips/commandline/ancillary_info/cmd_instructions.json
    modified: geoips/commandline/ancillary_info/cmd_instructions.yaml
    modified: geoips/commandline/args.py
    modified: geoips/commandline/commandline_interface.py
    modified: geoips/commandline/geoips_command.py
    modified: geoips/commandline/geoips_list.py
    modified: geoips/commandline/geoips_run.py
    modified: geoips/commandline/run_procflow.py
    modified: geoips/geoips_utils.py
    modified: pyproject.toml
    modified: tests/scripts/abi.config_based_exclude_goes17.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/abi.config_based_output.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/abi.config_based_output_low_memory.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/abi.static.Infrared.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/abi.static.Visible.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ahi.tc.WV.geotiff.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/amsr2.config_based_no_compare.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/amsr2.config_based_no_compare_full.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/amsr2.config_based_overlay_output.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/amsr2.config_based_overlay_output_low_memory.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/amsr2.tc.89H-Physical.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/amsr2_ocean.tc.windspeed.imagery_clean.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/amsub_mirs.tc.183-3H.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ascat_knmi.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs_clean.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ascat_low_knmi.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ascat_noaa_25km.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ascat_noaa_50km.tc.wind-ambiguities.imagery_windbarbs.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ascat_uhr.tc.nrcs.imagery_clean.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ascat_uhr.tc.wind-ambiguities.imagery_windbarbs.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ascat_uhr.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ascat_uhr.tc.windspeed.imagery_clean.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/atms.tc.165H.netcdf_geoips.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/documentation_imagery.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ewsg.static.Infrared.imagery_clean.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/gmi.tc.89pct.imagery_clean.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/hy2.tc.windspeed.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/imerg.tc.Rain.imagery_clean.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/mimic_coarse.static.TPW-CIMSS.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/mimic_fine.tc.TPW-PWAT.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/modis.Infrared.unprojected_image.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/oscat_knmi.tc.windbarbs.imagery_windbarbs.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/saphir.tc.183-3HNearest.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/sar.tc.nrcs.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/seviri.WV-Upper.unprojected_image.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/smap.tc.windspeed.imagery_clean.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/smap.unsectored.text_winds.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/smos.tc.sectored.text_winds.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ssmi.tc.37pct.imagery_clean.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/ssmis.color91.unprojected_image.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/viirsclearnight.Night-Vis-IR-GeoIPS1.unprojected_image.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/viirsday.tc.Night-Vis-IR.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/viirsmoon.tc.Night-Vis-GeoIPS1.imagery_clean.sh
    modified: tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_interface.py
    modified: tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_packages.py
    modified: tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_scripts.py
    modified: tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_test_datasets.py
    modified: tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_list_unit_tests.py
    modified: tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_run.py
    modified: tests/unit_tests/commandline/test_geoips_test_script.py

Release Updates
===============

Update "update_this_release_note" to v1_13_0a0
----------------------------------------------

*From GEOIPS#506: 2024-04-24, update update_this_release_note to 1.13.0a0*

::

    modified: docs/source/releases/index.rst
    new file: docs/source/releases/v1_13_0a0.rst
    modified: update_this_release_note
