 | # # # Distribution Statement A. Approved for public release. Distribution unlimited.
 | # # #
 | # # # Author:
 | # # # Naval Research Laboratory, Marine Meteorology Division
 | # # #
 | # # # This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
 | # # # the terms of the NRLMMD License included with this program. This program is
 | # # # distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 | # # # MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the included license
 | # # # for more details. If you did not receive the license, for more information see:
 | # # # https://github.com/U-S-NRL-Marine-Meteorology-Division/

Version 1.11.7a0 (2023-10-11)
*****************************

* Added documentation for windows installation
* Add create_plugin_registries.py to avoid loading all YAML plugins during run_procflow.
* Added dictionary xarray to datatree conversion
* Fix Upside Down Geotiff Error
* Add sphinx reference links throughout geoIPS documentation
* Rename Geostationary Sectors
* Create "output_checkers" interface
* Create "output_checker_kwargs" commandline argument
* Convert base.py: plugin_module_to_obj to class-based method
* Fixed from scipy.ndimage.interpolation import zoom deprecation warning
* Raise error when two plugins have the same name

Enhancements
============

Create "output_checkers" interface
----------------------------------

Refactor "compare_outputs.py" python module into an "output_checkers" interface,
and split into multiple plugins for different product types.

::

    modified: geoips/interfaces/__init__.py
    modified: geoips/interfaces/base.py
    modified: pyproject.toml
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
    added: geoips/interfaces/module_based/output_checkers.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/geotiff.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/image.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/netcdf.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/text.py
    deleted: geoips/compare_outputs.py

Create "output_checker_kwargs" commandline argument
-----------------------------------------------------

With the addition of output_checkers, we decided we would also like to have flexibility
with our pixel comparisons, as well as any other types of comparisons. Therefore, we
need to add a commandline argument called "output_checker_kwargs" to handle this.
Specifically for images, we'd like to have the ability to adjust the "image_threshold"
(% difference between pixels), for different user needs. This update adds three
threshold values ["lenient" (10%), "medium" (5%), "strict" (0%)].

::

    modified: geoips/commandline/args.py
    modified: geoips/interfaces/module_based/output_checkers.py
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/image.py
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/geotiff.py
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/netcdf.py
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/text.py
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/single_source.py

Bug Fixes
=========

Fix Upside Down Geotiff Error
-----------------------------

Geotiffs created by GeoIPS are upside down when imported into other applications, such
as Google Earth. We need to fix this so users aren't confused

::

    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/output_formatters/geotiff_standard.py
    modified: geoips/tests/outputs/ahi.tc.WV.geotiff/20200405_000000_SH252020_ahi_himawari-8_WV_100kts_100p00_1p0.tif

Fixed from scipy.ndimage.interpolation import zoom deprecation warning
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The scipy.ndimage.interpolation library was deprecated as of scipy v1.2 (Dec 2018),
and was causing warnings when importing the zoom libary for the ahi_hsd reader and
the abi_netcdf reader.

The following files have been modified to remove those deprecation warnings.

    * modified: geoips/geoips/plugins/modules/readers/abi_netcdf.py
    * modified: geoips/geoips/plugins/modules/readers/ahi_hsd.py

Raise error when two plugins have the same name
-----------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#382: 2023-10-23*

Currently in GeoIPS, if two plugins have the same name, one is just overwritten. This
would occur in the order in which GeoIPS defines its entry points. This is a bug, and
needs to be fixed. To do so, we check all registered_plugins.yaml found in each package,
loop through them, and compare them against every other plugin registry. If duplicates
are found, an error is raised, and the registries are removed until one of the
duplicates is renamed.

::

    modified: geoips/geoips/create_plugin_registries.py

Enhancements
============

Added dictionary xarray to datatree conversion
----------------------------------------------

::

  new: geoips/xarray_utils/xr_to_dtree.py
  new: tests/test_pytest/test_dtree.py

Documentation Updates
=====================

Add Links Throughout GeoIPS Documentation
-----------------------------------------

*From issue GEOIPS#322: 2023-09-14, Add Links Throught GeoIPS Sphinx Documentation*

Links in much of the GeoIPS documentation were relative paths to RST files within
the docs/source directory.  This does not work within sphinx-built html documentation.
All relative path links updated to valid sphinx ref links.

Files Modified:

::

    docs/source/starter/expert_installation.rst
    docs/source/starter/windows_installation.rst
    docs/source/starter/extending.rst
    docs/source/starter/installation.rst
    docs/source/userguide/plugin_extend.rst


Add windows installation instructions
-------------------------------------

::

  new: docs/source/starter/windows_installation.rst
  modified: README.md

Refactoring Updates
===================

Convert base.py: plugin_module_to_obj to class-based method
-----------------------------------------------------------

Currently, base.py: plugin_module_to_obj is a standalone function in interfaces/base.py,
which causes unneccesary confusion and should be converted to a class-based function
under BaseModuleInterface. This follows the convention of plugin_yaml_to_obj under
BaseYamlInterface, which is a much better implementation.

::

    modified: geoips/interfaces/base.py

Rename Geostationary Sectors
----------------------------

*From issue GEOIPS#304: 2023-08-27, Rename Geostationary Sectors*

Currently, GeoIPS has sectors that need to be renamed, so they are more informative.
This includes goes16, goes17, and himawari8. We also should add additional Geostationary
sectors, such as meteosat-europe, meteosat-africa, and meteosat-indian-ocean. This will
require changes to the output products as well.

::

    modified: geoips/plugins/yaml/sectors/static/goes16.yaml --> goes_east.yaml
    modified: geoips/plugins/yaml/sectors/static/goes17.yaml --> goes_west.yaml
    modified: geoips/plugins/yaml/sectors/static/himawari8.yaml --> himawari.yaml
    added: geoips/plugins/yaml/sectors/static/meteosat-africa.yaml
    added: geoips/plugins/yaml/sectors/static/meteosat-europe.yaml
    added: geoips/plugins/yaml/sectors/static/meteosat-indian-ocean.yaml
    modified: tests/outputs/abi.static.Infrared.imagery_annotated/20200918.195020.goes-16.abi.Infrared.goes16.45p56.noaa.10p0.png
    modified: tests/outputs/abi.static.Visible.imagery_annotated/20200918.195020.goes-16.abi.Visible.goes16.41p12.noaa.10p0.png
    modified: tests/scripts/abi.static.Infrared.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/scripts/abi.static.Visible.imagery_annotated.sh
    modified: tests/yaml_configs/abi_test.yaml
    modified: tests/yaml_configs/abi_test_low_memory.yaml

Efficiency Improvements
=======================

Changed how run_procflow accesses plugins, by creating a plugin registry
------------------------------------------------------------------------

*From NRLMMD-GEOIPS/geoips#238: 2023-07-06*

Currently, when run_procflow is called, GeoIPS actually has to load in every
existing GeoIPS plugin to find the appropriate plugin. This is very inefficient
and was resulting in 15+ seconds of lag time before run_procflow would actually
run. To fix this, we have created a plugin registry, which is essentially a python
dictionary of all the available plugins. This is now used to select the appropriate
plugin when run_procflow is called.

create_plugin_registries was also added as a console script within pyproject.toml,
so it can be executed as "create_plugin_registries".

::

    added: geoips/geoips/create_plugin_registries.py
    modified: pyproject.toml

create_plugin_registries.py generates a YAML file in the top level directory
of each plugin package called "registered_plugins.yaml".
This YAML file contains an entry for each plugin within the current package,
including the plugin name, interface, and absolute path.
geoips_utils and the base interfaces were updated to use this new plugin registry
rather than the deprecated "plugin cache" (which was created a runtime, every
time geoips was imported).

Note create_plugin_registries is NOT auto-called from within geoips_utils,
if the plugin registry is not found, a PluginRegistryError is raised, prompting
the user to run "create_plugin_registries"

Also note tuple-based interfaces (ie, products, which are stored as
(source_name, product_name)) are expanded out into each full tuple within
the plugin registry, and are accessed directly by their tuple from within
the geoips interfaces.

::

    modified: geoips/geoips/geoips_utils.py
    modified: geoips/geoips/errors.py
    modified: geoips/geoips/interfaces/base.py
    modified: geoips/geoips/interfaces/yaml_based/products.py
    modified: geoips/geoips/sector_utils/utils.py

To additionally decrease import time for geoips, move pyresample, geoips.mpl_utils,
and cartopy imports in the base sectors interface module into the respective
methods that use them, as those packages can take several seconds to import.

::

    modified: geoips/interfaces/yaml_based/sectors.py
