 | # # # Distribution Statement A. Approved for public release. Distribution unlimited.
 | # # #
 | # # # Author:
 | # # # Naval Research Laboratory, Marine Meteorology Division
 | # # #
 | # # # This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
 | # # # the terms of the NRLMMD License included with this program. This program is
 | # # # distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 | # # # MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the included license
 | # # # for more details. If you did not receive the license, for more information see:
 | # # # https://github.com/U-S-NRL-Marine-Meteorology-Division/

Version 1.11.5a0 (2023-09-27)
*****************************

* Remove flake8_docstring_only option from check_code.sh workflow call
* Update "update_this_release_note" to v1_11_5a0.rst
* Create "output_checkers" interface

Git Workflow Updates
====================

Remove flake8_docstring_only option from check_code.sh workflow call
--------------------------------------------------------------------

flake8 errors now corrected throughout geoips repo - fully enforce flake8
from the github actions workflow.

::

  .github/workflows/check-code.yaml

Release Updates
===============

Update "update_this_release_note" to docs/source/releases/v1_11_5a0.rst
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

::

  modified: update_this_release_note

Enhancements
============

Create "output_checkers" interface
----------------------------------

Currently in GeoIPS, products are compared using the "compare_outputs.py" python
module. This needs to be refactored into an interface called "output_checkers", and
split info multiple plugins for different product types.

::

    modified: geoips/interfaces/__init__.py
    modified: pyproject.toml
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/config_based.py
    modified: geoips/plugins/modules/procflows/single_source.py
    added: geoips/interfaces/module_based/output_checkers.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/utils/compare_outputs.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/geotiff_checker.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/gz_checker.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/image_checker.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/netcdf_checker.py
    added: geoips/plugins/modules/output_checkers/text_checker.py
    deleted: geoips/compare_outputs.py
